Now that we understood why we might need such a development server,
the question is how should I develop a workflow look like or what is a development workflow in the
beginning? Until now, our workflow was basically paced in the script import at the top, the script import
to the vuejs package and then write our vuejs code which is possible because we imported the script
and that works,
that is fine for simple applications. In more complex one, you might probably have multiple script imports
and you might have multiple packages you use,
you want to bundle them together, you want to build them,
you might want to use ES6
as I explained earlier,
so you might not want to use the ES5 limitations, instead you want to use ES6 and have your build process
compile it.
So we have our code here and when we ship it on the production server where the user is able to see
it, we want to transform it before doing so, we want to apply some special features, use some special features
a development workflow can offer us, those special features would be that we can compile single file
templates in a vuejs application. Now we haven't talked about single file templates yet, single file
templates are a powerful alternative to using the el property and inferring a template from the dom or
the template property
and actually, I will only use single file templates throughout the rest of the course but no worries, I will
dive deeper into them and explain how they work.
So we have these single file templates, as the name implies
it's basically the template outsourced into a separate file and the workflow we'll be using has a certain
let's say tool in it which understands such single file templates and then is able to compile them.
And I mean with that compile them during the development workflow so that the app we ship already has
the compiled templates, so the template transformed into javascript code which is then executable in the
browser. That is different to the current approach,
I touched on this in the last module,
right now we're using a setup where everything gets compiled in the browser,
we're shipping strings or this element selector and we're leaving it to vuejs to select these parts
in the dom at runtime and compile it from the native dom there.
Now with that approach, we're able to compile it on our machine which makes it much faster and smaller
because we're able to get rid of this compiler and we are shipping the finished code
but for that we need such a workflow,
there is no way around that.
That will also allow us to use case insensitive component selectors and I'll come back to this in the component
sections and we could apply some preprocessors, like babel to use ES6 code or to compile sass to
css if you want to compile that.
As I mentioned earlier, having these features not only makes our code more fun to write and gives us
some additional help or well allows us to use next-gen javascript features for example but since we
use these single file templates, it will also allow us to significantly shrink the size of the vuejs code
we shipped to the server
since you can get rid of this compiler since no compilation happens in a browser.
Yes of course, the re-rendering will always happen there but it already has the compile templates and
compiled just means transformed to javascript.
So we have this side effect and all of that are good reasons why we might want to use such a workflow,
it allows us to write better code,
it allows us to use other features to shrink the size to bundle it all together,
really all the things we need for medium sized and bigger applications.